Adrian Marinovich - Capstone Project ideas


1. Classification of seagoing vessels based on their underwater acoustic signature:
This would be accomplished by correlation of underwater acoustic data at fixed ocean locations to Universal Shipborne Automatic Identification System (AIS) tracking of vessels passing in sea lanes near those locations. This classification method may be useful to clients in government and the maritime industry by providing an alternative to AIS tracking. The aim is to classify vessels across a range of characteristics, including vessel size, type (cargo, tanker, fishing, etc.), propulsion characteristics, and possibly individual vessel identity. Vessel location, direction and speed may also be assessed. Acoustic data are freely available from the Ocean Observatories Initiative, and AIS tracking is available via sites such as aishub.net and shipplotter.com.

2. Kaggle competition - "Airbus Ship Detection Challenge": The challenge is "to build a model that detects all ships in satellite images as quickly as possible." To do this, the model must "locate ships in images, and put an aligned bounding box segment around the ships you locate. Many images do not contain ships, and those that do may contain multiple ships. Ships within and across images may differ in size (sometimes significantly) and be located in open sea, at docks, marinas, etc." Clients for such a model include environmental protection agencies, defense and law enforcement agencies and insurance companies seeking to have a detailed view of worldwide ship traffic.

3. Open Conductor: Using an OpenMV camera on a MicroPython board to detect and classify hand, baton and body gestures to output structured music based on modeling from actual conductor videos. This project would use a cheap and open-source camera and microcontroller setup utilizing a bare-bones program to allow users to create music using their hand, baton and body motions to control MIDI output. This would be of interest to those developing natural user interfaces for a variety of applications, as it could be modified to output other instructions for control purposes as needed.
